LAMBDA_INTEGRATION.md, before:

# Lambda Integration Implementation

## Overview

This implementation provides two critical endpoints for AWS Lambda integration with the backend server, enabling efficient batch processing of document analysis results.

## New Endpoints

### 1. Document Batch Lookup
**Endpoint:** `POST /api/documents/lookup-by-batch`

**Purpose:** Map processed files from Lambda to original document IDs using batch context and intelligent filename matching.

**Features:**
- Batch processing of up to 1000 files per request
- Intelligent filename normalization and similarity scoring
- Confidence scoring for matches (0.0 - 1.0)
- Single PostgreSQL query for optimal performance
- Comprehensive error handling and logging

**Request Example:**
```json
{
  "batch_id": "batch-2024-001",
  "processed_files": [
    {
      "file_key": "s3://processed-bucket/batch-001/contract_processed.pdf",
      "original_filename_pattern": "contract_2024.pdf"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "batch_id": "batch-2024-001",
  "total_requested": 1,
  "total_found": 1,
  "mappings": [
    {
      "file_key": "s3://processed-bucket/batch-001/contract_processed.pdf",
      "document_id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
      "found": true,
      "confidence_score": 0.95
    }
  ]
}
```

### 2. Bulk Document Analysis Persistence
**Endpoint:** `POST /api/document-analysis/bulk`

**Purpose:** Atomically insert multiple document analysis records with optimized PostgreSQL operations.

**Features:**
- Bulk processing of up to 500 analysis records per request
- Atomic transactions with detailed error reporting
- Batch validation of document and case existence
- Individual record failure tracking
- Performance metrics and processing time tracking

**Request Example:**
```json
{
  "analyses": [
    {
      "document_id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
      "case_id": "456e7890-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
      "workflow_id": "789e0123-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
      "analysis_content": "{\"summary\": \"Contract analysis complete\", \"key_terms\": [...]}",
      "analysis_status": "completed",
      "model_used": "claude-3-opus",
      "tokens_used": 1500,
      "analyzed_at": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "total_requested": 1,
  "inserted_count": 1,
  "failed_count": 0,
  "failed_records": null,
  "processing_time_ms": 145
}
```

## Authentication

**Configuration:**
- Optional Bearer token authentication via `API_KEY` environment variable
- If `API_KEY` is not set, endpoints operate without authentication
- When enabled, requires `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header

**Implementation:**
- FastAPI dependency injection for clean, testable auth
- Centralized authentication configuration
- Easy to upgrade to JWT or OAuth later

## Technical Architecture

### Database Optimizations
- **Batch Validation:** Single queries to validate multiple IDs simultaneously
- **Transaction Management:** Atomic operations with proper rollback handling
- **Connection Pooling:** Leverages existing asyncpg connection pool
- **Query Efficiency:** Minimized database round trips

### Filename Matching Algorithm
```python
def normalize_filename(filename: str) -> str:
    # Remove extensions and special characters
    # Convert to lowercase for case-insensitive matching
    
def calculate_filename_similarity(pattern: str, original: str) -> float:
    # Returns similarity score (0.0 - 1.0)
    # Exact match: 1.0
    # Substring match: 0.7-0.8  
    # Character overlap: 0.5+ (configurable threshold)
```

### Error Handling
- **Validation:** Comprehensive Pydantic model validation
- **Database Errors:** Graceful handling with detailed error messages
- **Partial Failures:** Individual record tracking in bulk operations
- **Performance Monitoring:** Request processing time measurement

## Performance Characteristics

### Lookup Endpoint
- **Throughput:** ~1000 files per request
- **Response Time:** <500ms for typical batches
- **Memory Usage:** O(n) where n = number of documents in batch

### Bulk Analysis Endpoint  
- **Throughput:** ~500 analysis records per request
- **Response Time:** <2s for typical batches
- **Transaction Safety:** Full ACID compliance

## Integration Guidelines

### For Lambda Functions
1. **Batch Size:** Recommended 50-100 records per request for optimal performance
2. **Retry Logic:** Implement exponential backoff for failed requests
3. **Error Handling:** Check `failed_records` array for partial failures
4. **Monitoring:** Log `processing_time_ms` for performance tracking

### Example Usage
```python
import httpx

# Document lookup
lookup_response = httpx.post(
    "https://api.example.com/api/documents/lookup-by-batch",
    headers={"Authorization": "Bearer your-api-key"},
    json={
        "batch_id": "batch-123",
        "processed_files": [...]
    }
)

# Bulk analysis storage
analysis_response = httpx.post(
    "https://api.example.com/api/document-analysis/bulk", 
    headers={"Authorization": "Bearer your-api-key"},
    json={
        "analyses": [...]
    }
)
```

## Environment Configuration

Add to your `.env` file:
```bash
# Optional: API key for Lambda endpoint authentication
API_KEY=your-secure-api-key-here
```

## Testing

The implementation includes comprehensive validation:
- Pydantic model validation for all inputs
- Database constraint enforcement
- Filename matching algorithm testing
- Error scenario handling

Run syntax validation:
```bash
python3 -m py_compile src/models/document.py
python3 -m py_compile src/utils/auth.py  
python3 -m py_compile src/api/routes/documents.py
```

## Monitoring & Observability

### Logging
- Request/response logging with processing times
- Detailed error logging with context
- Performance metrics for optimization

### Metrics
- Processing time per request
- Success/failure rates
- Batch size distributions
- Filename matching confidence scores

## Security Considerations

- Input validation on all request parameters
- SQL injection prevention via parameterized queries
- Optional authentication with secure token verification
- Rate limiting considerations for production deployment

## Backwards Compatibility

- All existing endpoints remain unchanged
- New endpoints follow established patterns
- No breaking changes to current API consumers
- Graceful degradation when API_KEY not configured

This implementation provides a robust, scalable foundation for Lambda integration while maintaining the high standards of the existing backend architecture.

Commit message:

Enforce API Key Authentication for all requests to this backend server

LAMBDA_INTEGRATION.md, after:

# Lambda Integration Implementation

## Overview

This implementation provides two critical endpoints for AWS Lambda integration with the backend server, enabling efficient batch processing of document analysis results.

## New Endpoints

### 1. Document Batch Lookup
**Endpoint:** `POST /api/documents/lookup-by-batch`

**Purpose:** Map processed files from Lambda to original document IDs using batch context and intelligent filename matching.

**Features:**
- Batch processing of up to 1000 files per request
- Intelligent filename normalization and similarity scoring
- Confidence scoring for matches (0.0 - 1.0)
- Single PostgreSQL query for optimal performance
- Comprehensive error handling and logging

**Request Example:**
```json
{
  "batch_id": "batch-2024-001",
  "processed_files": [
    {
      "file_key": "s3://processed-bucket/batch-001/contract_processed.pdf",
      "original_filename_pattern": "contract_2024.pdf"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "batch_id": "batch-2024-001",
  "total_requested": 1,
  "total_found": 1,
  "mappings": [
    {
      "file_key": "s3://processed-bucket/batch-001/contract_processed.pdf",
      "document_id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
      "found": true,
      "confidence_score": 0.95
    }
  ]
}
```

### 2. Bulk Document Analysis Persistence
**Endpoint:** `POST /api/document-analysis/bulk`

**Purpose:** Atomically insert multiple document analysis records with optimized PostgreSQL operations.

**Features:**
- Bulk processing of up to 500 analysis records per request
- Atomic transactions with detailed error reporting
- Batch validation of document and case existence
- Individual record failure tracking
- Performance metrics and processing time tracking

**Request Example:**
```json
{
  "analyses": [
    {
      "document_id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
      "case_id": "456e7890-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
      "workflow_id": "789e0123-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
      "analysis_content": "{\"summary\": \"Contract analysis complete\", \"key_terms\": [...]}",
      "analysis_status": "completed",
      "model_used": "claude-3-opus",
      "tokens_used": 1500,
      "analyzed_at": "2024-01-15T10:30:00Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

**Response Example:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "total_requested": 1,
  "inserted_count": 1,
  "failed_count": 0,
  "failed_records": null,
  "processing_time_ms": 145
}
```

## Authentication

**⚠️ MANDATORY AUTHENTICATION - ALL ENDPOINTS REQUIRE AUTHORIZATION**

**Configuration:**
- **Required** Bearer token authentication via `API_KEY` environment variable
- **All API endpoints require** `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header
- Server will not start without `API_KEY` configured

**Implementation:**
- FastAPI dependency injection for clean, testable auth
- Centralized authentication configuration across all endpoints
- Consistent security enforcement throughout the application
- Easy to upgrade to JWT or OAuth later

**Security Headers Required:**
```
Authorization: Bearer <your-api-key>
```

## Technical Architecture

### Database Optimizations
- **Batch Validation:** Single queries to validate multiple IDs simultaneously
- **Transaction Management:** Atomic operations with proper rollback handling
- **Connection Pooling:** Leverages existing asyncpg connection pool
- **Query Efficiency:** Minimized database round trips

### Filename Matching Algorithm
```python
def normalize_filename(filename: str) -> str:
    # Remove extensions and special characters
    # Convert to lowercase for case-insensitive matching
    
def calculate_filename_similarity(pattern: str, original: str) -> float:
    # Returns similarity score (0.0 - 1.0)
    # Exact match: 1.0
    # Substring match: 0.7-0.8  
    # Character overlap: 0.5+ (configurable threshold)
```

### Error Handling
- **Validation:** Comprehensive Pydantic model validation
- **Database Errors:** Graceful handling with detailed error messages
- **Partial Failures:** Individual record tracking in bulk operations
- **Performance Monitoring:** Request processing time measurement

## Performance Characteristics

### Lookup Endpoint
- **Throughput:** ~1000 files per request
- **Response Time:** <500ms for typical batches
- **Memory Usage:** O(n) where n = number of documents in batch

### Bulk Analysis Endpoint  
- **Throughput:** ~500 analysis records per request
- **Response Time:** <2s for typical batches
- **Transaction Safety:** Full ACID compliance

## Integration Guidelines

### For Lambda Functions
1. **Batch Size:** Recommended 50-100 records per request for optimal performance
2. **Retry Logic:** Implement exponential backoff for failed requests
3. **Error Handling:** Check `failed_records` array for partial failures
4. **Monitoring:** Log `processing_time_ms` for performance tracking

### Example Usage
```python
import httpx

# Document lookup
lookup_response = httpx.post(
    "https://api.example.com/api/documents/lookup-by-batch",
    headers={"Authorization": "Bearer your-api-key"},
    json={
        "batch_id": "batch-123",
        "processed_files": [...]
    }
)

# Bulk analysis storage
analysis_response = httpx.post(
    "https://api.example.com/api/document-analysis/bulk", 
    headers={"Authorization": "Bearer your-api-key"},
    json={
        "analyses": [...]
    }
)
```

## Environment Configuration

**REQUIRED** - Add to your `.env` file:
```bash
# REQUIRED: API key for all endpoint authentication
API_KEY=your-secure-api-key-here
```

**⚠️ Important:** The server will not start without `API_KEY` configured. This ensures all endpoints are properly secured.

## Testing

The implementation includes comprehensive validation:
- Pydantic model validation for all inputs
- Database constraint enforcement
- Filename matching algorithm testing
- Error scenario handling

Run syntax validation:
```bash
python3 -m py_compile src/models/document.py
python3 -m py_compile src/utils/auth.py  
python3 -m py_compile src/api/routes/documents.py
```

## Monitoring & Observability

### Logging
- Request/response logging with processing times
- Detailed error logging with context
- Performance metrics for optimization

### Metrics
- Processing time per request
- Success/failure rates
- Batch size distributions
- Filename matching confidence scores

## Security Considerations

- **Mandatory authentication** on all endpoints including health checks and webhooks
- Input validation on all request parameters
- SQL injection prevention via parameterized queries
- Secure Bearer token verification for all API access
- Rate limiting considerations for production deployment
- **Note:** Webhook endpoints now require authentication - ensure external services (like Resend) can provide the API key

## Breaking Changes

⚠️ **BREAKING CHANGE:** All endpoints now require authentication

- **All existing endpoints now require** `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header
- New endpoints follow established security patterns
- **API consumers must be updated** to include authentication headers
- **API_KEY environment variable is mandatory** - server will not start without it
- This applies to all endpoints including health checks and webhooks

**Migration Required:**
All existing API clients must be updated to include the Authorization header before deploying this version.

This implementation provides a robust, scalable foundation for Lambda integration while maintaining the high standards of the existing backend architecture.
